# Concepts

Sucata is a functional and modular game engine.

## Scene

A scene is a pool of entities, and it's the main way to organize your game, you
can active a scene to load its entities.

## Behaviour

Behaviour is a table with a collections of stateless functions, that recieve an state and changes it, the design of the behaviour it is to be modular, small scripts that can be reused in many entities

#### init(state)

Called when the scene is loaded

This function will be called only once.

> This function is optional, and you can omit it if you don't need execute any
> code when the entity is loaded.

#### tick(state)

Called every frame to update the entity

You can call `sucata.time.get_delta()` to get the time since the last frame, and
use it to update the entity's data.

> This function is optional, and you can omit it if you don't need execute any
> code every frame that the entity is loaded.

#### draw(state)

Called every frame to draw the entity

Normally used to draw graphics for the entity, using `sucata.graphics`
functions.

> This function is optional, and you can omit it if you don't need to draw any
> graphics for the entity.

#### free(state)

Called when the scene is unloaded

This function will be called only once, right before the entity is removed from
the scene.

> This function is optional, and you can omit it if you don't need to execute
> any command before the entity is removed from the scene.


## Entity

An entity is a table that contains state and behaviours, state is unique for the entity, behaviours it is scripts can be reused

#### id

The unique id of the entity, generated by the engine when the entity is spawned.

## Relationships

The engine don't have hirarchy of entities, instead all entities have
relationships with each other, and you can use the unique id of the entities to
reference them, and create relationships between them.

For example:

```lua
local children_id = sucata.scene.spawn(Bullet())
self.children = children_id
```

In this example, we are spawning a new entity of type `Bullet` and storing its
unique id in the `children` field of the current entity, so we can reference it
later.

```lua
local bullet_entity = sucata.scene.find_by_id(self.children)
bullet_entity.x = self.x
bullet_entity.y = self.y
```
